Of course not.
But...
I plan on stopping at least a few of his spikes.
All right!
Shiratorizawa!
He purposely cleared a path for the ball to go through.
He made Wakatoshi think he could get it through,
and then he blocked it.
Shiratorizawa!
That damn glasses-wearing brat...
But still, we lost that set.
I'm more scared by the fact that Tanji hasn't yelled at us yet.
Shiratorizawa!
Kenjirou.
Yes?
Shiratorizawa!
Your expression tells me that you already know.
You alive, Kenjirou?
Shiratorizawa!
If this was a practice match, I would've gotten a slap across the face.
Really?
I wouldn't say that set was bad enough to qualify as a mistake.
Shiratorizawa!
That sorta thing happens all the time.
This wasn't some simple mistake.
Shiratorizawa!
Give us a good serve, Daichi!
Cover it!
Shake it off! Keep being aggressive!
Right!
It doesn't seem like Shiratorizawa's going to crumble at all.
Yeah.
All right!
Their setter...
Not only is he not letting the second set get to him, but it seems like his eyes are more focused than ever.
That attack made me dizzy.
And I look up to setters who play elegantly.
But...
All right!
Shirabu, your sets are as sharp as ever today.
Thanks.
Our team was pretty good,
but up until the generation before us, it was often these two schools fighting to take another step forward.
Kitagawa First were lacking in their physique,
but they used speed and combo attacks to their advantage, and they looked elegant.
To a setter like me, Oikawa definitely seemed like a monster,
and yet I thought
that the height and power which could stop skilled teamwork
or attacks with multiple people
was the coolest thing of all.
I want to be able to fight like that.
Where, if all else fails, we can win with just a really high set.
A kind of volleyball where the setter doesn't need to control everything.
I'm going to Shiratorizawa.
Huh?
I'm going to go where other good players are and play some good volleyball.
For me, the coolest way to play volleyball
is this.
I'll become the setter that stands out the least.
All right!
Damn it... Shiratorizawa!
We'll win the next one!
Shiratorizawa!
Are you all right, Nishinoya?
There's no getting around the fact that the bigger you are, the greater your advantage is in volleyball.
Shiratorizawa!
And right now, there's no one bigger than him.
Just one more set!
Shiratorizawa!
But none of that matters to a libero.
I'm his only equal on the court.
All right, here we go!
Karasuno High School!
Since you were able to move like that,
I figured you must be good at receiving and blocking too.
You can't compete in terms of height, so what chance do you have if your technique is clumsy too?
"Clumsy: lacking dexterity, nimbleness, or grace. Awkward or inefficient in use." Got it?
Got it!
Hey, stop dawdling!
Shiratorizawa!
You remind me of Ushiwaka somehow.
Really?
Well, I do wish I could spike like he does.
Shiratorizawa!
That's not what I meant.
All right, have a seat. Rest while you can.
Shiratorizawa!
I'm sure you're finally getting used to both the finals and Shiratorizawa's cannon.
How you're playing is fine on a technical level.
Shiratorizawa!
Don't get confused.
I know you're probably tired, but remember to always keep your blocks together.
If your blocks are all over the place, they won't just be ineffective,
but you'll get in the way of the receiver too.
On both offense and defense, use numbers to your advantage.
Don't forget that!
Yes, sir!
Azumane.
Give us a good serve, Tsutomu!
I'm on a roll right now.
I'm gonna land this in one try!
Out!
Home run!
That was lucky!
Reon!
Nice receive!
This is clearly a setup for Ushiwaka.
He's going to smash down it from above, blow through our blocks,
or, if we're lucky, we'll deflect it.
Or...
If Ushiwaka comes in fast from the right and attacks,
if you and I both go to block, let's tighten up on the cross-court spike...
a little more than usual.
We won't be able to cut him off as much as a three-person block could,
but while we're closing off the cross-court spike...
the guardian angel's field of view becomes clearer.
The only one on the court who is Ushiwaka's equal...
...is me.
I can't let us keep losing!
Yes!
Nice receive!
All right!
Yeah!
Tsutomu!
If you keep standin' in dumb-ass places, you won't be able to dig out a spike or give backup!
Yes, sir!
Coach is calmer than usual today, but he's not holding back on me at all.
Why do you think you get yelled at the most?
Because I lack discipline!
It's because he's counting on you the most.
Huh?
All right, bring it!
He's way too simple-minded.
What I said is true, though.
All right!
You're too slow.
Blocking is all about intuition and sense of smell.
Blocking is systematic.
Hinata!
Goshiki!
It's the guy who does the really sharp straight spikes, so we'll tighten up for that!
Yes! Hinata made it!
He hit to the outside?!
All right!
He hit it through that gap?!
That was all luck, wasn't it?
Luck?
Don't be absurd.
You're only an ace if you're able to create miracles!
Stop trying to sound cool!
Okay.
That spike was amazing.
But that just means...
we have to score in a different, even cooler way!
Yeah!
Nice receive!
All right!
Use numbers to your advantage!
Go for the synchronized attack!
Oh, here comes that annoying attack again.
However...
The synchronized attack was blocked.
Nice block, Kawanishi!
Kawanishi! Kawanishi!
Number twelve saw that Sawamura didn't get back in position in time,
so he instantly discarded the possibility of an attack from the right side.
The chance Sawamura would spike wasn't completely zero, but the chance of them trying to force it was low.
If only you'd thought about all that back in the day.
Hello!
You guys always seemed to go for the ball without giving it any thought.
W-We were doing what we could!
Like focusing on spiking it hard or landing a serve!
It's their scary former coach.
He's Ukai's grandpa.
There we go.
Looks like Coach Washijou's got a pretty good lineup as always.
If all of them didn't go in for the attack,
one of them might've been able to dig out the block.
Right.
The strategies of our two teams
are completely different, but we both are alike in that we like to score points by force.
All right!
This is a battle between two different concepts.
It's always been like that with Ukai.
This is the perfect opportunity to see which of our groups of high school students is currently better.
Give us a good one, Daichi!
If Ushiwaka isn't going to receive serves,
we just have to hit it to their left side.
Reon!
Nice receive!
And then have Ushiwaka
spike as much as possible!
Let's stop him!
I've seen Tsukishima look annoyed before, but seeing him look frustrated is pretty new.
All right!
Yes! The receive is off!
Here we go.
Ready, and... jump!
If Ushiwaka gets a perfect set and blasts through your block, there's nothing you can do.
We have to focus on doing something about the rest.
Assuming we're able to stick two or more blockers on Ushiwaka,
whoever's in the middle in the back row will take a step back.
That's what Ennoshita did in the Waku South match!
Exactly!
Since our blocks with Tsukishima as the focus are doing better than expected, we should definitely give this a try.
It's only a single step.
But it's an important one.
Don't let it end with Hinata or Tanaka digging it out with their fast reflexes.
You have to get one that's not a miracle.
Daichi!
Got it!
The last hit's all yours, Tanaka!
Get back!
Nope!
What?!
He stopped it!
The miracle boy, Satori!
Satori!
Damn it!
He was seriously able to stop that spike without knowing where it was coming from?
Good job stopping that.
The way he was facing, he couldn't afford to see where the block was.
And spikers frequently end up looking at the spot where they plan to spike it.
So that's how he was able to determine where the ball would go.
Which means that number five was going to hit it to the same spot, regardless of where he was standing.
I'm sorry!
Shake it off!
That block was pretty amazing.
Yes, it was!
I think they're fine.
If they're able to do that high-level stuff like it's nothing, they'll be fine.
But their opponents are called champions because it's going to take more than that to win.
Give us a good serve, Wakatoshi!
Sorry!
What?
Is he Mr. Perfect?
Is Ushiwaka Mr. Friggin' Perfect?!
Do it again!
Someone get it!
I'm not gonna let them extend their lead!
The block's low!
All right!
Right!
Hey.
If you don't score any points when you're in the front row, nothing's gonna start.
Got it!
Come to think of it, didn't Ushiwaka say something to Hinata in between sets?
Oh, yes.
"A shrimp who sucks as much as you do has no right to live,"
apparently.
Seriously? Are you sure his persecution complex wasn't getting to him?
That's what I thought too, but apparently that's what Ushiwaka meant.
I wonder how Hinata's gonna respond.
Should you be laughing at that?
Well, I mean,
if that was enough to break his heart, he wouldn't be here right now.
That gap! It's a good spot!
Sorry! It's short!
Oohira!
You can't compete in terms of height, so what chance do you have if your technique is clumsy too?
Damn it!
I'm jealous that he's so tall!
I'm jealous, but...
It's a block, but it's almost like...
he's doing a running approach for a spike!
The running approach gives you man-made wings.
He blocked it!
I'm jealous, but...
I never said that I wasn't going to fight with height!
Karasuno scored twice in a row!
Hey, now!
That little number ten finally did a decent block!
Yeah, but he's pretty erratic, so it might've just been luck.
Why are they talking like they know each other?
But if that wasn't a fluke, this match is going to change.
Nishinoya.
I've fallen for Shouyou all over again!
He should just do that every time!
No, no, no.
A running approach like that won't be able to handle fast attacks.
Not to mention, it'll wear down his stamina.
Middle blockers run around everywhere as it is,
and Hinata's doing more than most.
You always were trying to figure out how you could be as lazy as possible.
You got that right!
I have no complaints if you actually succeed at being lazy.
Oohira!
One more time!
Of course!
I'm so sorry!
Shake it off.
Think about how fast you're going, you moron!
Shouyou, I have a message from Mr. Ukai.
Ideally you'd want to jump straight up, but for now, he said you can jump sideways too.
In return... We'll support both sides.
Yeah.
If my timing's too slow, then there's no point to this!
Just spike it back!
I have no complaints if you actually succeed at being lazy.
But in Munchkin's case...
his only choice is to jump.
Yes!
Nice spike, Hinata!
Oh, so you came too.
You said that you weren't going to come because it'd piss you off regardless of who won.
No matter who wins, I'm gonna be able to see the other team's faces when they lose.
You really are a piece of shit.
I don't have time to sit around feeling sorry for myself.
Seems like number ten is as active as always.
He's definitely some kind of monster.
But I feel worse for everyone who has to play with him.
Sorry!
Tanaka!
Right!
All right!
Give us a good serve, Tsukishima!
Highest point of the jump! Highest point of the jump!
Highest point... of the jump!
Up front!
Left!
I touched it!
We can score here!
Wakatoshi!
Come on, Hinata.
I'll...
support you!
I hit it!
Got it!
Don't you dare get worn out!
Shut up!
He's going to the other side from there?
Damn it.
All right!
Tanaka! Great job supporting him!
It's a senior's job to always be there and help
his precious juniors!
A haiku!
Karasuno scored twice in a row!
Nice contact, Hinata!
Even after that reckless synchronized attack, Karasuno sure likes to do some risky things.
New, tricky skills and combo attacks, huh?
In that case...
let's stomp those out with the individual strengths that we've honed for so long.
Each individual's physical ability, height, and power...
If that was the way to prove a team's strength, this match would be much simpler.
But that not being the case is what makes this so deep and so interesting!
Tch.
You're clicking your tongue a lot more than usual, Tsukishima.
You sound like a clock.
A clock? What does tongue clicking have to do with clocks?
Hey, concentrate on the match.
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Chemical Change of Encounters."
Got a wish that can't be forced through
Barely hanging on and staying true
With a little help from timing and your crew
You can still stay standing
Wanna take the fight head-on
Might get lost, but keep on keeping on
'Cause that's where your chance lies
The rest is up to you, yes
The rest is up to you
Make your dreams and ideals come true
Or sit tight and let the future pass on through
The rest is up to you
You ain't the luckiest of guys
And you ain't anywhere near wise
The winds of change are too bright for your eyes
But you wanna have all the luck
Stuff all the wisdom junk in your trunk
And live holding your head up high
The rest is up to you, yes
It's all up to you People might call you naive
And say you're not doing it right
But the rest is up to you
Don't lose your way, and push on anew
It's all up to you
Light a fire in every cell of your body
By taking a deep, long breath
Turn your blood and tears into offerings
Carry a torch fueled by your desires
And scream out at full volume Let there be light
With a prayer for the future, start your sprint
Let there be light, use the dark as your runway
And sprint through the path you chose
Let there be light, believe in the glory within your grasp
And run headlong into the despair in front of you
Let there be light
There is only one reason I kick the ground
It is so I shine brighter and soar higher than before
Let there be light, so that your brilliance of today
Shows your friends who are lost The way to the future
To those who bear the cross of their dreams
The warriors who seek eternal glory Let there be light
Episode Five: One vs. Many Episode Five: One vs. Many
Episode Six: The Chemical Change of Encounters
Shiratorizawa                  Karasuno
Shiratorizawa                   Karasuno
Miyagi Prefectural Junior High Sports Festival
Boys' Volleyball Boys' Volleyball
Shiratorizawa              Kitagawa First
Karasuno Karasuno
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                   Shiratorizawa
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                   Shiratorizawa
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy !!
!!
Haikyuu Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu